Hey guys, welcome back.
OK, let's talk about what goes into a great profile page.
Now, in the metaphor of dating, your marketing efforts
will be like your clothes, your content will be
like your personality, your hashtags will be
your sweet tan, bro, and your profile page,
well, it's pretty much your face, not in the
way that you can't change your face,
any South Korean will tell you otherwise, but I mean
in that it's unavoidable. Unless you wear the mask,
they're going to see your ugly mug.
So, as you'll hear me say over and over, if you already
feel good about your profile, skip this lecture,
because we're just going to go back to the
basics and cover what actually matters. Anyway,
I personally like to think about the Instagram profile
kind of like a landing page. People land on your profile
and you want to give them the best impression possible.
That impression could be the difference
between success and failure.
There's really only so much growth hacking that you
can do. If your face looks like one of those "Don't
do meth" posters, then you're
probably going to have a bad time.
Now, before you go off thinking that making
a good profile is something that's hard,
let me stop you - it's really not.
It's actually quite simple.
In reality, there's only five things on your profile that
you need to care about, five things that, if done
well, will make you look like this,
and if done poorly, will make you look like this.
Number one, your profile picture.
Number two, your username.
Number three, your name, your account name,
and yes, that is different from your username,
more about that later.
Number four is your bio text, and number five, that's your
call to action, or what I'll sometimes refer to as a CTA.
That's it.
Pull those letters correctly and success
is essentially within your grasp.
So, do you have a high quality, high resolution profile photo
that matches the tone of your account and your posts?
Is your username memorable and
something that you could pronounce?
Does your account name succinctly summarize
what your page is, and is it optimized for search?
Does your bio text make me more
interested in what you have to say,
or less interested? And finally, are you using the right
language in your call to action to get the right outcome?
Now, some of you might be a little bit clueless
about the individual things I'm talking about.
So let's cover some very, very basic Instagram jargon.
Again, if you have experience with Instagram,
why are you still watching this lecture?
Anyway, moving on. We'll cover some Instagram
jargon, or what I'll refer to as insta jargon.
What's your profile picture?
Well, it's that thing right there in the big circle in the top left
of your profile page, you also see it in your comments.
What's your username?
It's right there at the top of the page, you'll see this pretty
much everywhere, with the @ symbol next to it.
So what's your account name?
Yes, I know that it's incredibly stupid
that it's called your name.
I personally like to think of it more like a subtitle,
but whatever it is, that's what it's called.
So if you're reading a blog somewhere,
that's what they'll call it. Anyway,
it's right there, it's literally the first thing
a new viewer will read on your account.
Your bio text, on the other hand, is the next 2-3
lines of unbolded and unitalicised text. And then,
last up, your call to action is literally like
the last 1-2 lines of your broader bio.
It goes there, and if the account you're
looking at has any clue what they're doing,
it'll be a link or at least something like an e-mail address
or some way to convert the attention on the
account into something that's an actual business.
Now, if you're curious, what's this area called? It has
several names actually, sometimes you hear it called
a feed, an album, a gallery. Those are pretty common.
I personally call it your wall, because I'm a first
world anarchist, rebel without a cause.
OK, so those are our top tier concerns, and
we'll tackle them one by one in this section.
Are there other things we care about
when making the best profile page?
Yes, but we cover those just later on.
These are the things like the broader aesthetic, the color
patterns of your wall, the number of people following you,
the ratio of how many people you follow to people that follow
you, and the quality of the link you use in your call to action.
Like I said, keep those in mind, but we're going to
cover those later, so right now it's not a big deal.
OK. Got it?
In order to master arguably the most important part
of Instagram, you need a game plan for your profile
picture, your bio, your username, your
account name, and your call to action.
So that's what we're going to do in the next couple of lectures.
Next up, I'm going to walk the complete newbies
through creating their first dummy account, and after
that, we'll tackle the first step, which is your username.
See you then.